en: optimize 2 docs (#2396)
pingcap/docs-tidb-operator: en/get-started.md

For more information about monitoring the TiDB cluster in TiDB Operator, refer to [Deploy Monitoring and Alerts for a TiDB Cluster](monitor-a-tidb-cluster.md).

> ### Accessing the TiDB Dashboard web UI

Author: ```suggestion
### Access the TiDB Dashboard web UI
```

To access the TiDB Dashboard web UI locally, you need to forward the port for TiDB Dashboard:

```shell
kubectl port-forward -n tidb-cluster svc/basic-tidb-dashboard-exposed 12333 > pf12333.out &
```

You can access the panel of TiDB Dashboard at <http://localhost:12333> on the host where you run `kubectl`.

Note that if you run `kubectl port-forward` in a Docker container or on a remote host instead of your local host, you cannot access TiDB Dashboard using `localhost` from your local browser. In this case, you can run the following command to listen on all addresses:

```bash
kubectl port-forward --address 0.0.0.0 -n tidb-cluster svc/basic-tidb-dashboard-exposed 12333 > pf12333.out &
```

Then access TiDB Dashboard through `http://${remote-server-IP}:12333`.

> ## Step 5: Upgrading a TiDB Cluster

Author: ```suggestion
## Step 5: Upgrade a TiDB cluster
```

> The TiDB Operator simplifies the process of performing a rolling upgrade of a TiDB cluster. This section provides instructions on how to upgrade your TiDB cluster to the "nightly" release.

Author: ```suggestion
TiDB Operator simplifies the process of performing a rolling upgrade of a TiDB cluster. This section provides instructions on how to upgrade your TiDB cluster to the "nightly" release.
```

Before proceeding, it is important to familiarize yourself with the `kubectl patch` sub-command. This command allows you to directly apply changes to the running cluster resources. There are different patch strategies available, each with its own capabilities, limitations, and allowed formats. For more information, refer to the [Kubernetes Patch](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/manage-kubernetes-objects/update-api-object-kubectl-patch/) documentation.

> ### Modifying the TiDB Cluster Version

Author: ```suggestion
### Modify the TiDB cluster version
```

</details>

> ### Monitoring Pod Restarts

Author: ```suggestion
### Monitor Pod restarts
```

</details>

> ### Forwarding the TiDB Service Port

Author: ```suggestion
### Forward the TiDB service port
```

Once all Pods have been restarted, you can verify that the cluster's version number has been updated.

> Please note that if you had previously set up port forwarding, you will need to reset it as the pods it was forwarding to have been destroyed and recreated.

Author: ```suggestion
Note that if you had previously set up port forwarding, you will need to reset it as the Pods it was forwarding to have been destroyed and recreated.
```

```
kubectl port-forward -n tidb-cluster svc/basic-tidb 24000:4000 > pf24000.out &
```

If port `24000` is already in use, you can replace it with an available port.

> ### Checking the TiDB Cluster Version

Author: ```suggestion
### Check the TiDB cluster version
```

<details>
<summary>Expected output</summary>

> Please note that the version may vary depending on the time the command is run.

Author: ```suggestion
Note that the version might vary depending on the time the command is run.
```

</details>

> ## Step 6: Destroying the TiDB Cluster and the Kubernetes Cluster

Author: ```suggestion
## Step 6: Destroy the TiDB cluster and the Kubernetes cluster
```

Once you have finished testing, it is time to destroy the TiDB cluster and the Kubernetes cluster.

> ### Destroying the TiDB Cluster

Author: ```suggestion
### Destroy the TiDB cluster
```

To destroy the TiDB cluster, follow these steps:

> #### Stop `kubectl` Port Forwarding

Author: ```suggestion
#### Stop `kubectl` port forwarding
```

If you have any running `kubectl` processes that are forwarding ports, make sure to end them by running the following command:

```shell
pgrep -lfa kubectl
```

> #### Delete the TiDB Cluster

Author: ```suggestion
#### Delete the TiDB cluster
```

To delete the TiDB cluster, use the following command:

```shell
kubectl delete tc basic -n tidb-cluster
```

In this command, `tc` is a shorthand for `tidbclusters`.

> #### Delete TiDB Monitoring Services

Author: ```suggestion
#### Delete TiDB monitoring services
```

To delete the TiDB monitoring services, run the following command:

```shell
kubectl delete tidbmonitor basic -n tidb-cluster
```

> #### Delete PV Data

Author: ```suggestion
#### Delete PV data
```

> If your deployment includes persistent data storage, deleting the TiDB cluster will not remove the data in the cluster. If you do not need the data, you can clean it by running the following commands:

Author: ```suggestion
If your deployment includes persistent data storage, deleting the TiDB cluster does not remove the data in the cluster. If you do not need the data, you can clean it by running the following commands:
```

```shell
kubectl delete pvc -n tidb-cluster -l app.kubernetes.io/instance=basic,app.kubernetes.io/managed-by=tidb-operator && \
kubectl get pv -l app.kubernetes.io/namespace=tidb-cluster,app.kubernetes.io/managed-by=tidb-operator,app.kubernetes.io/instance=basic -o name | xargs -I {} kubectl patch {} -p '{"spec":{"persistentVolumeReclaimPolicy":"Delete"}}'
```

> #### Delete Namespaces

Author: ```suggestion
#### Delete namespaces
```

To ensure that there are no remaining resources, delete the namespace used for your TiDB cluster by running the following command:

```shell
kubectl delete namespace tidb-cluster
```

> ### Destroying the Kubernetes Cluster

Author: ```suggestion
### Destroy the Kubernetes cluster
```

The method for destroying a Kubernetes cluster depends on how it was created. Here are the steps for destroying a Kubernetes cluster based on the creation method:

<SimpleTab>
<div label="kind">

If you created the Kubernetes cluster using kind, use the following command to destroy it:

```shell
kind delete cluster
```

</div>

<div label="minikube">

If you created the Kubernetes cluster using minikube, use the following command to destroy it:

```shell
minikube delete
```

</div>
</SimpleTab>

> ## See Also

Author: ```suggestion
## See also
```

If you are interested in deploying a TiDB cluster in production environments, refer to the following documents:

On public clouds:

> - [Deploying TiDB on AWS EKS](deploy-on-aws-eks.md)
> - [Deploying TiDB on Google Cloud GKE](deploy-on-gcp-gke.md)
> - [Deploying TiDB on Azure AKS](deploy-on-azure-aks.md)
> - [Deploying TiDB on Alibaba Cloud ACK](deploy-on-alibaba-cloud.md)

Author: ```suggestion
- [Deploy TiDB on AWS EKS](deploy-on-aws-eks.md)
- [Deploy TiDB on Google Cloud GKE](deploy-on-gcp-gke.md)
- [Deploy TiDB on Azure AKS](deploy-on-azure-aks.md)
- [Deploy TiDB on Alibaba Cloud ACK](deploy-on-alibaba-cloud.md)
```

In a self-managed Kubernetes cluster:

- Familiarize yourself with the [Prerequisites for TiDB on Kubernetes](prerequisites.md)

> - [Configure the Local PV](configure-storage-class.md#local-pv-configuration) for your Kubernetes cluster to achieve high performance for TiKV

Author: ```suggestion
- [Configure the local PV](configure-storage-class.md#local-pv-configuration) for your Kubernetes cluster to achieve high performance for TiKV
```

- [Deploy TiDB Operator on Kubernetes](deploy-tidb-operator.md)

> - [Deploy TiDB on a General Kubernetes Cluster](deploy-on-general-kubernetes.md)

Author: ```suggestion
- [Deploy TiDB on General Kubernetes](deploy-on-general-kubernetes.md)
```
